I joined a game jam with one very
specific theme, horses. The twist was
that the whole thing had to work with
one-handed controls. A few days later, I
had a playable card game prototype, a
full custom deck, animated race horses,
and somehow we placed sixth. So, for
this jam, I knew I had to move fast. Not
just prototype [music] fast, not just
placeholder fast. I wanted to see how
far I could push Pixel Lab [music] as
the actual asset pipeline for the game.
And because this was going to be a card
game, the first thing I needed was the
deck. So, I opened A Sprite, made a 64
by 64 canvas, and jumped [music] into
Create Image Pro, small to XL. I started
simple, just retro card shapes. I wanted
a base. The first results were decent,
not terrible, but not very interesting
either. [music] So, I started pushing
the prompt more, better designs, more
detail, more texture. At this point, I
wasn't trying to get perfect final art.
I was trying to get direction. I just
needed something that felt like the
beginning of a real visual style. Once I
had a few cards I liked, I cleaned them
up a bit and brought them into Create
Image from Style Reference Pro. And
that's where things started getting a
lot better. I added those cards as
[music] style references. Then I went
into Low Spec and picked the CSC 16
palette. I liked it because the colors
felt muted and controlled, [music]
which immediately made the cards feel a
little more intentional. So, with those
style references and that palette, I
started generating the heart suit. And
honestly, even then, I still wasn't
fully sold. The cards were fine, they
just felt kind of [music] plain. So, I
kept iterating. I added things like
nicely textured cards and cool textures
[music] to try to force more personality
into the results. That helped, but the
real breakthrough came when I added one
[music] phrase, horse-themed. That was
the shift. All of a sudden, the cards
had identity. They felt more specific,
more weird, more memorable. It stopped
feeling like generic playing cards and
started feeling like the start of an
actual game. The only problem was that
some of them leaned a little too cute,
[music] and that wasn't really the vibe
I wanted. So, I pushed the prompt again
and started asking for humanoid horses,
especially for the higher value cards.
And that was the moment where it really
clicked. Now the deck had character. Now
it had a hook. Now I could actually see
the game. Once I had a few strong
results, I started removing the
backgrounds manually. And this is one of
those small workflow details that
[music] matters a lot. With cards,
automatic background removal can get
messy because the model might treat the
inside of the card like background. So,
for this kind of asset, manual cleanup
was just the safer move. Then I took
those cleaned up cards [music] and fed
them back in as the new style
references. So, the next generations
would be guided by the stronger versions
instead [music] of the rough early ones.
That loop is honestly one of my favorite
parts of working this way. Generate,
choose what works, clean it up, feed it
back [music] in, generate again. Each
pass gets tighter. So, once I had a tile
of heart cards I really liked, I shifted
into cleanup mode. I fixed outlines,
adjusted details, cleaned up the heart
symbols, copied and pasted shapes where
needed, and made sure everything felt
cohesive. And this is where I think
Pixel Lab is the most useful. Not as a
magic button that instantly gives you
final art, but as a tool that gets you
somewhere good faster. It helps you get
past [music] the blank canvas. It helps
you find the style sooner. And then your
manual work becomes polish instead of
[music] guesswork. And for a game jam,
that matters a lot because usually you
don't lose time on one huge mistake, you
lose it in tiny redraws. Damn it, WHY IS
IT SO HARD?
ANOTHER FAILURE.
SO, once the hearts were in a good
place, I saved them into the project
folder and started organizing everything
properly. Assets folder, cards folder,
hearts folder. Not exciting, but very
necessary. Then I used those cleaned up
[music] cards as the main style
references and moved on to the other
suits, spades, diamonds, clubs. Same
workflow, same idea. At one point, I got
these medieval horse characters that
honestly looked kind of amazing, but
every suit still needed cleanup. Symbols
had to match, shapes had to be
consistent, details had to be unified so
the full deck felt like one thing
instead of four separate experiments.
That part is not glamorous, but it's
important. It's the difference between
something that feels generated and
something that actually feels designed.
And yeah, I know this is maybe a
slightly strange way to tackle a jam.
Normally, [music] you'd prototype first
and make the pretty assets later. But I
wanted enough of the deck done early
that once the [music] prototype worked,
it would already feel like a real game.
So, once I had enough cards built, I put
together a small prototype. And seeing
the deck actually working [music] in the
game was the first big moment of relief
because before that, they were just
assets. Now they had a role. Now they
had context. Once the main deck was
working, [music] I moved on to one of my
favorite parts of the whole project, the
jokers. At first, I used the cards I had
already made as style references and
generated broader joker variations,
different horse jokers, different poses,
different styles, different colors, just
exploring. [music]
And some of those were really cool, but
I didn't want the jokers to feel random.
I wanted them to matter. So, instead of
prompting vague joker ideas, I made a
list of the jokers I wanted and what
each one was supposed to do. That gave
the whole process way more direction.
Now I wasn't just prompting make me some
jokers, now I was prompting specific
gameplay identities. And for a lot of
those, I switched workflows and used
inpainting. [music]
I took a simpler card, brought it into
inpainting, masked the center so the
border stayed intact, and then generated
directly inside the card frame. That
worked really well because it kept the
card proportions [music] and layout
consistent while letting me experiment
with the art inside. So, I do prompts
[music] for things like a flat shaded
joker card, lucky horseshoe, horse
joker, limited color palette with the
word joker on the upper and lower side
like a real playing card. That
specificity helped a lot. And yes,
sometimes the text [music] came out
messy. That's normal. But if the art
itself looked good, I kept it and fixed
the text manually. That's a big part of
the whole workflow here. You don't throw
away a strong generation just because
one detail is broken. You keep what
works. You edit what doesn't. [music]
You keep moving. One of the jokers I
made was based on a photo finish idea,
like a horse barely winning the race.
That one came out especially cool, but
again, the text needed cleanup. [music]
So, I fixed it instead of rerolling
forever. And once I started prompting
the actual names of the jokers instead
of generic joker ideas, the results got
much better. The AI had a clearer
target, and the [music] cards started
feeling much more intentional. So, I
repeated that workflow across the whole
joker list. Generate, select, clean,
refine, repeat. And by the end of it, I
had a full set of custom jokers that
matched the deck and also had actual
[music] gameplay purpose. Then I added
the joker logic into the prototype. And
that's when the project started [music]
feeling like a real game instead of just
a visual experiment because now it had
systems. It had rules. [music] It had
identity. It had special cards that
actually meant something.
But at that point, we still didn't have
the most important part of a
horse-themed game,
the horses. So, I went back to the
racetrack background and used it to
estimate how large [music] the horses
should be on screen. Then I opened a new
64 by 64 canvas and started generating
side scroller horses. The first prompt
was basically horse for video game, idle
pose, looking east, retro style, side
scroller. And I got some nice looking
horses. The problem was scale. They were
too big. So, I resized one of them, used
that smaller version as a style
reference, [music] and prompted again. I
also added fully to the side so the
horse would read more clearly in profile
instead of turning toward [music] the
camera. That helped a lot. Then I
switched over to the Pixel Lab website
because it was easier to iterate there.
I went back into Create Image Pro and
[music] then Create from Style Reference
and kept building out more variations. I
prompted different types of horses, idle
pose, looking east, side scroller. Same
basic structure, just trying to get more
options that actually fit the scene. The
next batch was still a little large, so
I shrank them again, used that as the
new style reference, and generated one
more time.
And there we go. Now the horses actually
fit. Then I added flat shaded to the
prompt, and that really helped lock in
the look. At that point, I loved the
results. So, I cleaned [music] them up
and removed stray pixels. Then I had a
very obvious thought. These are race
horses. They should probably have
jockeys. So, I prompted race horses with
race jockeys, [music] looking east, side
scroller, flat shaded. And that gave me
exactly what I wanted, different horses,
different jockey outfits, enough
variation that the race started feeling
much more alive. [music]
Then came the next big step, animation.
So, I took the horses into Animate with
Text Pro and prompted something like
[music] the horse is running, racing,
legs crossing. And just to be clear,
this happened before Animate with Text
V3 [music] existed. So, this was the
earlier version of the tool, but even
then it was enough to get the motion
started. [music] And that was one of the
most satisfying moments in the whole
project because that was the point where
the game stopped feeling like a card
prototype with horse art and started
feeling like an actual [music] horse
racing game. Of course, the animation
still needed cleanup. So, I spent more
time editing, fixing, and polishing the
frames [music] to make them work better
once they were actually in game. Then I
tested them in the race scene with the
jockeys, the horses, and the CRT effect
I had added on top. And that part made
the whole thing feel way more alive.
From there, I kept cleaning up the
animations, fixing details, and making
sure the [music] motion felt coherent
once it was all moving together. Then I
went back and made more specific cards
for certain jokers, just adding [music]
extra custom details where they were
needed. So, by that point, the project
had the deck, the jokers, the race
horses, the jockeys, the animation, and
the gameplay, but it still needed
presentation. It needed a name. So, I
went back to the creator page and opened
create image pro again to make a logo. I
prompted a blackjack and horse themed
text logo saying "Derby 21, retro
minimalistic" [music] on a 256 by 256
canvas. I found one I liked, removed the
background, cleaned it up, [music] and
used it for the start page. And that
made a huge difference because suddenly
it didn't just feel like a jam
prototype. It felt like an actual game
with an identity. But we were still
missing one more background. The menu
where you choose your horses. [music]
So, I went back into create image pro
and prompted a background of vintage
parchment paper with subtle faded
horseshoe watermarks and a sepia-toned
texture. I used a 344 by 192 canvas,
basically a 16 by 9 layout. And the
first result was pretty good, but still
too busy. So, I brought it into edit
image pro and simplified [music] it.
Less detail, simpler paper texture,
subtle horseshoe watermarks, divided in
the middle like a book with a crease
down the center. That gave me something
much cleaner and much more usable as a
menu screen. [music] Then I did even
more cleanup on the animations, and
finally there was one last thing
missing, the [music] ending screens. If
the player wins, what do they see? If
the player loses, what do they see? So,
I went back into create image pro one
more time and prompted a background
image of a horse winning money, horse
[music] betting, flat shaded, single
line outlines. I generated a few options
until I found one I liked. Then I
prompted the losing version, too. And
honestly, that one came out pretty
funny. At that point, the game finally
had a beginning, a middle, and an end.
Then to wrap everything up, I added some
sound effects in 11 Labs and used Suno
for the music. I slowed the music down a
bit, added some texture, and tried to
make it fit the game better overall. And
the game itself was built in Love 2D
with antigravity. If you want to see
more real game development workflows
using Pixel Lab like this, subscribe
because this is exactly the kind of
pipeline I want to keep exploring. And
also, make sure to check the game out
down in the description, and make sure
to join the Discord channel, and share
all your work with us. Peace.